01.  Meaning,  Scope  and  Significance  of  Public  Administration"		
	“Public    Administration is	constantly	being	reinvented	because	it	is contextual” Elaborate.			
	"The  scope  of  the  discipline  of  Public  Administration  is  determined  by  what an   administrative   system   does."   Does   it   mean   that   the   scope   of   this discipline  is boundaryless?  Explain.		
	"Public  Administration  is  the  translation  of  politics  into  reality  that  citizens see everyday." (Donald F.  Kettl and  Janies W)		
	"The   study   of   administration   should   start   from   the   base   of   management rather  than the foundation  of law.  "Explain.		
	"Public  and  Private  Administrations  are  two  species  of  the  same  genus,  but they also  have special values  and  techniques of their own.  "Comment.		
	"If  public  administration  is  to  play  a  major  legitimising  role  in  governing  our complex society, it needs to  be more  fully conceptualised. "Discuss.		
	"Administrative  questions are  not political questions." discuss		
	"Though  there  are  certain  points  of  similarity  between  public  and  private administration  yet  no  private  organisation  can  ever  be  exactly  the  same  as  a public one." Examine		
	"Publicness   Comment"   of   Public   Administration   in   an   ideal   democratic government  remains  the  ultimate  value in theory  and practice. 'Elucidate.		
	"A   science   of   admministration   would   be   a   body    of    formal   statements describing    invariant    relationships    between    measurable    ojects,    units    or elements.   unquestionably,   administrative   research   has   produced   definite precepts   and   hypotheses   that   are   applicable   to   concrete   situation."   (Fritz Morsetin Marx) Comment.		
02.  Wilson's  Vision  of  Public  Administration				
	"Even  after  130  years  of  its  publication.  Woodrow  Wilson's  essay  "The  Study of  Administration' continues  to  have great relevance even today." Comment.		
	"The  field of  Public  Administration is  a field  of  business." (Woodrow Wilson)		
	"Calling  Woodrow  Wilson,  the  father  of  Public  Administration  is  doing  injustic to equally  or even more eminent contributions  made  prior to him. "  Comment.		
03.  Evolution  of  the  Discipline  and  its  Present  Status			
	Question		
	“If  there  is  ever  to  be  a  science  of  Public  Administration  it  must  derive  from an  understanding  of  man’s  behaviour”.  Explain.		
	"With     every     major     transformation     in     the     applied     world     of     Public Administration.  The  study  of  Public  Administration  has  grown  in  scope  and intensity."   Discuss  the   relationship  between  the  evolution  of  the  discipline and  profession of  Public  Administration		
	Waldo's  The  Administrative  State'  provides  a  fundamental  challenge  to  some of  the orthodox  premises. Explain.		
	What   are   the   implications   of   the   post-   structuralist   perspective   on   the discrete   aspects   of   Public   Administration,   coming   from   its   epistemological positions?		
	How   would   you   trace   the   development   of   paradigms   from   the   politics/ administration  dichotomy  of  190-1926  to  the  rise  of  Public  Administration  as Public   Administration   after   the   formation   of   the   National   Association   of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration (NASPAA) in the  USA in  1970?		
	From  Woodrow  Wilson  to  herbert  Simon  most  writers  on  administration  have taken   the   achievement   of   efficiency   as   the   central   objective.   Justify   the statement with references to the work of  major writers.		
	"The  advent  of the concept of  roll back of the state" since  the  nineteen eighties had    been    altering    the    role    of    Public    Administration    but    certainly    not diminishing  its  central place  in human society. "Discuss.		
	Given  an  account  of  major  landmarks  in  the  growth  of  the  discipline  of  Public Administration   in   the   20th   century.   What   are   the   possible   trends   in   its growth in  the  first  decade  of  21st  century?		
	Describe  the  evolution  of  the  discipline  of  public  administration  with  special emphasis on post  - 1971 developments.		
	"……….  The  paradigms  of  public  administration  may  be  understood  in  terns of   locus   and   focus.   "   Golembiewski.   In   the   light   of   the   above   statement describe  the evolutions  of  the  discipline  of public  administration  .		
04.  New  Public  Administration					
	“The       Phenomenological      Approach      advocated      by       the      New       Public Administration    has    obstructed    the    path    of    theory    building    in    Public Administration."  Comment.		
	"The  New  Public  Administration  has  seriously  jolted  the  traditional  concepts and  outlook  of  the  discipline  and  enriched  the  subject  by  imparting  wider perspective  by  linking  it  closely  to  the  society.  "  (Felix  A.  Nigro  and  Lloyd  G. Nigro) Elucidate.		
	In   the   evolution   of   the   discipline   of   Public   Admnistration,   Minnowbrook Coferences   I,   II   and   III   reflect   the   discipline's   reconceptualisation   and   its changing  values.  Elucidate.		
	"New    Public    Management    is    dead:    long    live    digital   era    of    governance." Comment.		
	"New  Public  Administration  is  ….  A  revolution  or  radicalism  in  words,  and  (at best) status  - quo  in skills  or technologies.		
	Minnow   brook   Conference   in   USA   identified   four   features   crucial   to   'new public  administration'.  Explain.		
05.  Public  Choice  Approach			
	Question		
	Discuss  how  the  Public  Choice  Theory  promotes  the concept  of  'Steering'.  And visualising  efficient and  effective administration.		
	What  is  administrative  elitism?  How  does  it  evolve  in  public  administration? Elaborate your response with reference to historical examples.		
	On   a   more   sophisticated   plane   public   choice   is   concerned   with   "Pareto optimality",  or at  least with "Pareto  improvements". Comment		
	Whereas   Downs'   Model   is   largely   dependent   on   a   theiry   of   psychological motivation,  Niskanen's  model  is  framed  by  neo  -  classical  thinking.  In  the light of  the above,  discuss  the public  choice approach to decision - making		
06.  Challenges  of  Liberalisation,  Privatisation  and  Globalisation				
	“Globalization   has   constructed   the   administrative   state   to   save   and   serve corporate   power   structure.”   Discuss   how   transnational   corporation   impact government and public  administration in the contemporary era.		
	"Liberalisation,  privatisation  and  globalisation  have  transformed  the  nature  of development  administration." Discuss		
	"Globalisation   has   transformed   the   nature   and   character   of   State   from traditional   administrative   Welfare   State   to   a   Corporate   State."   Analyse   the changes  in the nature  of  public  administration in this context.		
	"In   the   globalized   public    administration, hierarchy	creates	more	ethical  problems  than it solves ……"Comment		
07.  Good  Governance:  Concept  and  Application			
	
	With  the  entry  of  the  concept  of  ‘good  governance’  the  discipline  of  Public Administration has  shed its  statist character. Explain.		
	“Governance    is    neither    a    paradigm    nor    a    panacea    for    all    the    ills    of government.  It  may  be  a  more  useful  approach  when  other  methods  fail  in providing public  service.” Critically evaluate.		
	"Good  governance  is  respect  for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law,  streng  - thening     democracy,     promoting     transparency     and     capacity     in     Public Administration.  "  (Kofi  Annan) In  the  light  of  the  statement.  Critically  examine the  criterial  of  good  governance  as  provided  by  United  Nations  and  Nayef  Al- Rodhan.		
	Democracy  and  good  governance  are  contradict  -  ions  in  terms.  Discuss  with examples		
08.  New  Public  Management				
	Contractualism  has  became   a  favourite  policy  of  the   neoliberal  forces,  but now without its  share of controversy.  Argue.		
	Has  New  Public  Management  failed  in  promoting  a  democratic  polity?  Analyze in the  contexts of individuals as a  citizen and individuals as a  costumer.		
	“New  Public  Service  approach  is  an  improvement  over  its  predecessor,  New Public  Management." Discuss		
	New   Public   Management   has   been   branded   by   certain   scholars   as   'Neo   - Taylorism.'  It  is  a  justified  comparison?  What  factors  have  led  to  the  decline of  NPM so soon after its  birth?		
	"New    Public    Management    and    post    -    New    Public    Management    reforms initiatives     have     affected     the     balance     between     managerial,     political, administrative,  legal, professional and social accountability." Analyze.		
	"New  Public  Management  may  have  neither  been  the  saviour  its  enthusiasts promised nor the  devil  its  critics worried  it would be.  "Discuss.		
	A  crisis  of  credibility'  in  the  administrative  system  can  be  overcome  only  by 'reinventing government' Comment.		
	It   is   said   that   "the   perspective   of   public   administration,   developed   over   a century,  with  a  tradition  of  management  of  public  institutions  and  services has  received  a  jolt  from  the  novelty  of  New  Public  Management."  Bring  out  the core   values,   approaches   and   show   how   the   new   Public   Management   has attempted to change or retain  them, and to what  extent.		
	"In  the  last  two  decades,  almost  all  countries  of  the  world  have  experienced transformations  in  their  administrative  systems.  "Explain  this  phenomenon with  examples  from  the  developed  and  the  developing  nations  in  the  context of  New Public  Management Movement.		
	"The   'New  Public   Management'  (N2M)  is  an  incarnation  of  a  new  model  of public   sector   management   n   response   of   the   challenges   of   liberalization, international competitiveness and technological changes.  "Explain.		
