10.  Public  Policy			
01.  Models  of  Policy-Making  and  their  Critique			
	Question		
	“Maximum  social  gain”  in  public  policy  making  is  an  attractive  goal  which  is rarely  found in  practices.  Discuss.		
	"In  Public  Policy  Making.  'Rationalism'  is  the  opposite  of  'Incrementalism'." Examine.		
	"The  field  of  MIS  is  not  necessarily  an  extension  of  computer  science,  but  of management and organization theory." Elucidate.		
	"Policies  determine  politics  as  governments  constrain?  Attempt  a  critique  of this  statement.		
	According   to   Y.   Dror,   "The   Science   of   Muddling   through   is   essentially   a reinforcement   of   pro-inertia   and   anti-innovation   ideas   in   policy-making". Comment.		
	'Policy     judgments     comprise     reality     judgments,     value     judgments     and instrumental  judgments' (Geoffrey  Vickers) . Elucidate.		
	Would  you  agree  with  Bachrach  and  Baratz  that  along  with  decision,  non- decisions  are  also part  of policy  ? Give  reasons  for your answer.		
	Dror's  Optimal  Model  is  a  fusion  of  the  economically  rational  model  with  the extra-rational model.		
	The  incrementalist  paradigm  posits  a  conservative  tendency  in  public  policy making.		
	'Policy  is  being  made  as  it  is  being  administered  and  administered  as  it  is being  made.' Comment.		
	"Yehezkel  Dror's  normative  models  of  policy  making  tend  to  be  academic  in perspective with poor operational utility? Comment:  .		
	Public  Policy  is  not  an  independent  variable  and  human  history  shows  little evidence  of systematic  learning from policy experience. Discuss.		
	Policy  is  a decision driven model of  research use. Explain.		
	"Public  policy  is  what politics  is about:  -Substantiate. .		
02.  Processes  of  Conceptualisation			
	Question		
	“Arguably,    incrementalism    now    stands    most    in    contrast    to    neo-liberal nationality  that  impose  markets  against  both  gradual  change  and  democratic liberalism”. Analyze these two statements. .		
	“………..    even    if    policies    are    well-organized,    efficiently    operated,    widely utilized,  adequately  financed  and  supported,  we  may  still  ask,  so  what?  Do they work?  ... What  about their costs, outputs  and impact?" Discuss.		
			
03.  Planning  and  Implementation			
	Question		
	"Of  all  the  processes  involved  in  public  policy,  implementation  is  of  greatest importance."  Examine the impediments in policy  implementation.		
	"The  term  policy  implementation  is  in  some  respects  preferable  to  the  label public  administration." Argue.		
	'Our  normal  expectation  should  be  that  new  programs  will  fail  to  get  off  the ground  and  that,  at  best,  they  will  take  considerable  time  to  get  started.  The cards   in   this   world   are   stacked   against   things   happening'   [Pressman   and Wildayskyl.  Comment.		
	“Public  administration  can  be  portrayed  as  a  wheel  of  relationships  focused on  the formulation and implementation of public  policy”.  Explain.  .		
	"Implementing   a   public   policy   is   a   process   of   discovering   what   works   and what  does not." Examine. .		
	"Nothing   comes   across   more   strongly   than   the   great   naivete   about   policy implementation."  Discuss.		
	Give  an  assessment  of  the  processes  of  policy  formulation  and  discuss  the problems  of  policy implementation.		
	Comment   on   the   role   of   public   administration   in   policy   making   and   its implementation.  What are  the other factors influencing the policy  process?		
04.  Evaluation  and  Review  and  their  Limitations			
	Question		
	"A  public  policy  without  the  active  involvement  of  people  in  its  formulation, implementation  and  evaluation  is  only  a  facade."  How  can  this  anomaly  be corrected ?		
	"Policy   analysis   is   incomplete   without   taking   into   account   policy   delivery." Argue.		
	"Public   interest   is   still   inadequate   as   a   ground   concept   to   evaluate   public policy." Discuss.		
	"Cost-benefit   analysis   is   a   very   unsatisfactory   view   of   evaluating   public policy." Comment.		
05.  State  Theories  and  Public  Policy  Formulation			
	Question		
	"In  the  appreciative  systems  of  policy  makers,  goals  are  subsidiary  to  norms and values."  (Vickers) .  Explain.		
	"Lenin's      concept      of      Socialist      management      refers      to      directing      the organizational  development of Socialist society." Explain.		
	"The   concept   of   political   feasibility   in   policy   alternative   is   a   probabilistic concept  and  is  related  to  each  policy  alternative."  In  the  context  of  the  above statement analyze Dror's  contribution.		
	"Instead  of  reforms  to  budgetary  process,  Wildaysky  proposes  to  redefine  the role  of  political  institutions  and  rules  by  which  politics  leads  to  agreement  on budget." Explain.		
