11.  Techniques  of  Administrative  Improvement			
01.  Organisation  and  Methods			
	Question		
	What are  the  main functions of an 0  and  M office?		
	Bring   out   the   various   techniques   of   0   &   M   adopted   in   India   to   improve efficiency in administration.		
02.  Work  Study  and  Work  Management			
	Question		
	In  the  era  of  increasing  stress  on  productivity  work  study  provides  the  road ahead  for  the  administration.  Identify  the  positive  attributes  of  work  study  in the  light  of the statement.		
	“The  term  'work study' may be  used  in narrower and wider senses." Elucidate.		
	Write  short note  on Work study and work-measurement  in Indian Administration.		
03.  E-Governance  and  Information  Technology			
	Question		
	Has  e-governance  led  to  debureaucratization  and  decentralization  ?  Assess  its impact on bureaucratic  inertia.		
	To   what   extent   has   e-governance   made   the   administrative   system   more citizen-oriented ?  Can it  (e-governance) be made more participative ?		
	"Digitalization  provides  great impetus to E-governance."  Discuss.		
	Information     Technology     brings     efficiency     and     transparency Administration."  Examine the statement with suitable  examples.		
	"E-Governance   creates   a   direct   relationship   between   the   Citizen   and   the State."     In     this     context,     explain     the     changing     role     of     the     elected representatives. .		
	"The     bottom     line     for     governance     is     outcomes     than     the     outputs     of government." Analyze  in the  context of e-government and e-governance.		
	The   success  rate  of  e-government  projects   in   most   developing   countries  is stated to be  rather low.  Assess the  reason.		
	The  apparent  demise  of  e-Government  and  e-Business  as  the  main  organizing principles  of  society  has  created  the  conditions  for  the  rise  of  e-Governance from  the  ashes'-In  the  context  of  the  above  statement  show  the  distinctions between e-Government and e-Governance.		
	E-governance  is  the  final  arrival  of  Max  Webber's  'iron  cage  of  rationality'. Discuss.		
	Do  you  think  that  there  is  a  sort  of  paradox  between  e-Governance  and  good governance? Explain fully.		
	"e-governance  has  the  potentiality  to  emerge  as  the  most  effective  instrument of efficiency,  transparency and accountability." Comment.		
	"The  rise  of  information  technology  is  an  opportunity  to  overcome  historical disabilities".  Explain.		
	In   what   ways   and   how   can   information   technology   play   a   crucial   role   in effective government-citizen Interaction in the context of good governance?		
	What      is      Information      Technology?      Describe      its      impact Administration.		
	Examine  the  needs  and  facets  of  administrative  reforms  in  the  fast  changing scenario   of   the   21st   century.   What   are   the   obstacles   to   administrative reforms? Give  suggestions to overcome them.		
