2.   Administrative  Thought/Thinkers/Theories			
"
01.  Scientific  Management  and  Scientific  Management  Movement"			
	Fayol and Taylor had different management perspectives while having similar goal of organisational efficiency. Comment.		
	“Taylorism  is  considered  very controversial despite its  popularity.” (Stephen P. Waring  ) Comment.		
	Peter  Drucker  justified  in  saying.  “Management  principles  should  not  tell  us what  to do, but only tell us what  not to  do ? Comment.		
	“taylor’s   ideas   need   modification   in   the   context   of   post   –   industrial economies in contemporary  era.”  Justify  with reasons.		
	In  what  respects  is  Taylor’s  Scientific  Management’  or  classical  motivational theory  different  from  the  classical  organizational  theory  expounded  by  Gulick, urwick etc?		
	What  light  does  Antonio  Gramsci’s  critique  of  Taylorism  throw  on  its  socio- psychological underpinnings?		
	“Taylor’s  contribution  was  not  a  set  of  general  principles  for  organizing  work efficiency,  but  a  set  of  operating  procedures  that  could  be  employed  in  each concrete situation to secure their application.”		
	“Taylor’s   scientific   management   ignored   social   and   psychological   factors.” Comment.		
02.  Classical  Theory			
	Question		
	Structural    theory    is,    by    and    large    grounded    in    classical    principles    of efficiency, effectiveness and productivity. Explain		
	Discus   the   main   approaches   to   increase   the   efficiency   of   government   and public  administration.		
	A  fairly  adequate analysis  of the Administrative Organization  in government is possible  when  we  treat  'bureaucracy'  as  a  'structure'  and  'administration'  as  a 'function'.  Discuss		
	Critically    examine    the    Classical    Science    of    administration    with    special reference to its criticism  by  Dwight Waldo  and Robert  Dahl.		
	"The   failure   of   classical   science   of   administration   lies   in   its   capacity   to confront theory  with evidence."  Discuss.		
	Why   do   all   administrative   organizations   consider   'hierarchy'   as   the   many splendoured technique?  Discuss.		
03.  Weber's  Bureaucratic  Model  -  its  Critique  and  Post  Weberian  Developments			
	Question		
	Neo-Weberian state involves changing the model of operation of administrative structures into a model focused on meeting citizens needs. Discuss.		
	“the movement towards governance as an organizing concept for public administration and management is because the focus of administration has been shifting from the bureaucratic state to the hollow state and third-party Government”, critically examine		
	“Bureau  pathology  denigrates competence  in  organization.” Explain.		
	"The  concepts  of  rationality  and  efficiency  are  intertwined  in  the  bureaucratic analysis  of Max  Weber." Comment.		
	“Weberian   model   of   bureaucracy   lacks   emotional   validity   when   applied   to modern democratic administration.”  Comment		
	"New    Public    Management    and    post    -    New    Public    Management    reforms initiatives     have     affected     the     balance     between     managerial,     political, administrative,  legal, professional and social accountability." Analyze.		
	“Kari  Marx’s  interpretation  of  bureaucracy  was  rooted  in  the  history  of  the nature  of the  State.” Evaluate.		
	‘In   the   canonization   of   this   abstract   idea   of   ‘Staatsraison’   are   inseparably woven  the  sure  instincts  of  the  bureaucracy  for  the  conditions  which  preserve its  own power in the State’(Weber).  Explain		
	Consider  the  statements  below:  i)  “Technically,  the  bureaucracy  represents the   purest   type   of   lagal   –   rational   authority   ii)   “Bureaueracy   does   not represent  the  only  type  of  legal  authority.  “Identify  the  theoretical  context  and analyse the  above statements		
	Weber’s     ideas     of     impersonal     detachment     and     esprit     de     corps     are incompatible.  Explain.		
	“Bureaucarcy  can  exist  only  where  the  whole  service  of  the  state  is  removed from  the  common  political  life  of  the  people,  its  chiefs  as  well  as  rank  and  file. Its   motives,   its   objectives,   its   policy,   its   standards   must   be   bureaucratic. “Discuss.		
	“Weberian   model   of   bureaucracy   lacks   empirical   validity   when   applied   to modern democratic administration.”  Examine		
	Critically   examine   the   models   of   Max   weber   and   Chester   I   Barnard   with reference to ‘bureaucratic  authority’.		
04.  Mary  Parker  Follett			
	Question		
	Reddin model of leadership added third dimension to the existing two basic dimensions of leadership identified by Ohio studies and Blake and mutton elucidate		
	Follet firmly advocated for cultivating interdependence and collaboration among individuals as the key to resolving conflict and establishing more harmonious and all encompassing social structures. Discuss.		
	Integration of different streams of administrative thought to propound a universal administrative theory is hindered by the impact of culture. Critically examine.		
	Mary  Parker  Follett  traced  the  foundational  value  of  business  and  enterprise on    her    way    to    understand    the    organism    of    governmental    machinery. Comment.		
	“Conflict   is   the   appearance   of   differences   differences   of   opinions   and   of interests”  (May Parker Follett), Comment		
	“Follett’s  work  was  not  directed  towards  the  resolution  of  the  conflict  of  ideas, but   towards   the   resolution   of   structural   conflicts   between   workers   and capitalists.”  In  the  right  of  the  statement  critically  evaluate  Follett’s  idea  of dynamic administration.		
	“Mary  Parker Follett  was  far ahead of  her times.” Discuss.		
	“The  main  problem  with  Mary  Parker  Follett’s  work  is  that  her  idealism  is showing.” Explain.		
	In   Follett’s   view.   “Authority   belongs   to   the   job   and   stays   with   the   job.   “ Explain.		
05.  Human  Relations  School			
	Question		
	“Productivity is not the result of working conditions, but the result of emotional response of workers to work performed”are Elton Mayo findings relevant in contemporary organisations.?		
	“What   is   distinctive   about   the   Classical   and   Human   Relations   schools   of administration is  their  complementarity  to each. “Analyse.		
	“The  design  of  the  physical  structure,  the  anatomy  of  the  organization  came first,   and   was   indeed   the   principal   consideration.”   “An   organization   is   a system    of    interrelated    social    behaviours    of    participants.    Analyse    these statements   and   evaluate  the  contributions   of   the   respective   approaches   to administration theory.		
	To   what   extent   has   the   human   relations   movement   contributed   to   the knowledge  and practice  within  the field of personnel administration?		
	Explain   the   contribution   of   George   Elton   Mayo   to   the   development   of   the Human   Relations   School.   How   did   behavioural   scientists   modify   his   basic findings?		
06.  Functions  of  the  Executive  C.I.  Barnard			
	Question		
	Efficiency in the specialised sense is an organisation capacity to offer effective inducements in sufficient quantity to maintain the equilibrium of the system. Analyse		
	Bernard posits  the zone of indifference as the human condition that animates authority relationships and cooperation in modern organisations. examine.		
	“Chester  Barnard  in  ‘The  Function  of  the  Executive’  injected  ‘the  social’  in  the study  of  organization.  Explain  in  this  context  how  the  executive  is  expected  to play  a much greater  role  than  a manager.”		
	"Chester   Barnard's   model   of   'Contribution-Satisfaction   Equilibrium'   is   still considered  a  logical  model  of  organisational  motivation."  Do  you  agree?  Give arguments		
	“Executive  positions  imply  a  complex  morality  and  require  a  high  capacity  of responsibility”  –  (Chester Baranrd). Comment		
	“Contemporary     Organizational     theory     seems     further     afield     of     Chester Barnard’s    Functions    of    the    Executive    than    of    organizational    ecology.    “ Examine   the   statement   in   the   light   of   ecological   elements   in   Barnard’s thought.		
	“Governance  theory  and  the  notion  of  governmentality  have  many  points  of convergence, but they run on parallel lines.”  Comment.		
	“The   Barnard   –   Simon   Theory   of   Organisation   is   essentially   a   theory   of motivation.”		
	“The   distinction   between   line   and   staff   is   relative   rather   than   absolute.   “ Discuss.		
	‘The  inculcation  of  belief  in  the  real  existence  of  a  common  purpose  is  an essential executive  function. ‘Comment		
	“Organisation is a  system of  consciously  coordinated activities or forces  of  two or more  persons. “Comment.		
	…..a     more     thorough     consideration     leads     to     the     understanding     that communication,    authority,    specialization    and    purpose    are    all    aspects comprehended  in coordination. (chester I. Barnard) – Comment.		
07.  Simon's  Decision-Making  Theory			
	Question		
	The process of decisions is largely technique of narrowing choices. Explain.		
	Intrinsic motivation in comparison to extrinsic motivation leads to enhanced performance and creativity. Examine this statement.		
	Administrative man bridges  the psychological man and the rational man. Explain.		
	Two dimensional taxonomy was used by Herbert Simon to describe the degree to which decisions are programmed or non-programmed. Explain.		
	“Herbert  Simon's  book  Administrative  Behavior  presents  a  synthesis  of  the classical  and  behavioural  approaches  to  the  study  of  Public  Administration." Explain		
	“Decisions  are  not  made  by  ‘organizations’  but  by  ‘human  beings’  behaving  as members   of   organizations.   “How   do   Bernard   and   Simon   conceptualize   the relation     between     the     decisions     of     the     individual     employee     and     the organizational authority?		
	‘Three   features   characterize   Simon’s   original   view   of   bounded   rationality search for alternatives, satisficing, and aspiration  adaptation.  Elucidate.		
	“Simon’s     identifying     decision     –     making     as     the     core     field     of     public administration  appears  logically  acceptable  but  his  positivist  underpinning  is problematic.” Critically examine the statement.		
	“Simon’s    work    has     had    major    implications    for    the    study    of    public administration  and  the  practice  of  public  administration  professionalism.  “ Comment		
	The  ‘decision  –  making  scheme’  and  ‘satisfying  model’  of  Herbert  A  Simon  is the  major component of administrative  theory. Comment.		
	“Administrative  efficiency  is  enhanced  by  keeping  at  a  minimum  the  number of  organizational  levels  through  which  a  matter  must  pass  before  it  is  acted upon.”-  (Herbert.  Simon) Comment.		
			
	Question		
	Human relations populate that what is important to a worker and what influences his or her productivity level may not be the organisational chart, but his or her association with other workers. Is it more relevant today?		
	Every human organisation shall start from system I and ultimately end up with system IV comment on Linkert’s statement. 		
	ƒ		
	“Douglas   McGregor’s   Theory   X   and   Theory   Y   describe   two   contrasting   by managers  in an  organization.” Examine.		
	According  to  McGregor,  “True  professional  help  is  not  in  playing  God  with  the client,    but    in    placing    professional    knowledge    and    skill    at    the    client’s disposal”.  In  the  light  of  the  above,  justify  how  theory  Y  is  indicative  and  not prescriptive.		
	The   theory   of   ‘organizational   incompetence’   has   two   separate   and   distinct faces. Examine  Chris  Argyris  ‘views on this.		
	Critically  examine  conflict   resolution  according  to  M.P.Follett.  Explain  how MacGregor took forward her  ideas  in  the context  of complex  organizations.		
	“The   successful   management   leaders   are   found   in   Likert’s   “system   –   4’ approach to  organizational leadership”.  Examine.		
	Analyse  Mcgregor’s  Theory  X  and  Theroy  Y.  Do  you  agree  with  the  view  that with  every  passing  year,  McGregor’s  message  has  become  more  relevant  and more  important?  Substantiate  your answer.		
	“In  McGregor’s  view,  the  managerial  cosmology  meaningfully  addresses  the understanding  of  manager  and  his  role  perceptions. “Explain.		
09.  Other  Administrative  Thinkers			
	Question		
	Dwight  Waldo  in  his  book,  The  Administrative  State  emphatically  mentions that   the   roots   of   administrative   theory   lie   in   political   theory.   Critically examine Waldo's  contention.		
	Edward   Gibbon,   the   author   of   Decline   and   Fall   of   the   Roman   Empire remarked    :    "Corruption,    the    most    infallible    symptom    of    Constitutional liberty."  Critically  examine  this  statement.		
