
4.  Organizations			
"
01.  Systems  Theory  and  Contingency  Theory"			
	Question		
	Contingency  theory  of  organization  is  founded  on  the  interplay  of  ‘external  fit’ and  ‘internal fit’. Discuss.		
	"Political and administrative  systems  have reciprocal  relationship.” Discuss.		
	“Systems  Theory  in  essence  is  not  a  theory,  but  an  approach  to  the  study  of administrative phenomena. “Comment.		
	How  does  the  Strategic  Contingencies  Theory  of  organizational  design  deal with problems  arising from sub-  unit  centrality  and non-sub  stitutiability  ?		
	“The   essence   of   the   contingency   theory   paradigm   is   that   organizational effectiveness  results  from  fitting  characteristics  of  the  organization,  such  as its  structure,  to  contingencies  that  reflect  the  situation  of  the  organization.; Give  your reactions to this  statement.		
	In  the  light  of  your  discussion  on  3(b)  (i)  above,  also  show  where  and  how  this ‘fitting’  differs  essentially  from  the  ‘coping’  with  ‘stress’  from  the  environment emphasized by  the  systems theory of organization.		
	The   system   Approach   is   relevant   even   today   for   organizational   analysis. Discuss  how  chester  Barnard  and  David  Easton  how  chester  Barnard  and David Easton adopted  this  approach in  their respective  areas of study.		
02.  Structure  and  Forms			
	Question		
	“A  variety   of   different   organizational   arrangements   can   be   used   to   provide different  public  goods  and  service  Explain  theory  underlying  this  proposition and  its  potential contribution.		
	“The   distinction   between   line   and   staff   is   relative   rather   than   absolute.   “ Discuss.		
	A  fairly  adequate  analysis  of  the  Administrative  Organization  in  Government is  possible  when  we  treat  bureaucracy’  as  a  ‘structure’ and ‘administration’  as a ‘function’. Discuss.		
03.  Ministries  and  Department,  Corporations,  Companies			
	Question		
	“Form  of  an  organisation  influences  the  success  of  a  public  enterprise,  but the    choice    of    a    form    has    always    remained    problematic."    Discuss    the statement    in    the    context    of    the    comparative    merits    and    limitations    of departments, corporations, companies  and boards.  Give  illustrations.		
	“The   autonomy   of   Public   Corporations   raised   a   great   debate   about   their internal  working  and  external  relation  with  the  Ministers  and  the  Parliament. “Discuss.		
	“There   is   no   doubt   the   departmentalisation   is   fraught   with   complexities. These  are in  par technical. In  part  political.  “Discus.		
	“To  claim  that  a  company  or  a  corporation  form  is  always  more  effective  than a  departmental  form  of  organization  is  an  outdated  view.  The  real  test  of  a sound    structure    is    its    capacity    to    balance    decisional    autonomy    and operational   flexibility   with   optimal   accountability.   “Critically   examine   this statement.		
	‘Public  corporations  are  not  an  end  in  themselves  but  an  extension  of  the government activities designed to promote  public  welfare.  “Substantiate.		
04.  Regulatory  Authorities			
	Question		
	“The  advent  of  the  regulatory  regimes  indicates  the  demise  of  the  arbitrator state.” Comment.		
	If     the     Regulatory     Commissions….     Are     wholly     independent,     they     are completely  irresponsible  for  the  doing  of  very  important  policy  determining and  administrative  work…  on  the  other  hand,  to  rob  the  commissions  of  their independence   is   seriously   to   menace   the   impartial   performance   of   their judicial work”. (Cushman) Examine.		
	“Delegation  to  independent  agencies  has  taken  place  in  an  interdependent process    driven    by    emulation.”    Discuss    in    the    context    of    independent regulatory  agencies in  the modern  Regulatiory State,		
05.  Public-Private  Partnerships			
	Question		
	“PPPs   serve   too   many   parties   and   too   many   interests   …   to   be   focused. “Identify   in   the   context   of   the   statement.   The   parties   involved   in   Public   – Private  Partnerships  and their conflicting  aims		
	“To  talk  about  the  regulatory  framework  is  to  talk  about  governance.”  Analyse the  statement  in  the  context  of  public  –  private  partnerships  and  identify  the elements  of regulation.		
	Explain   the   impact   of   privatization   on   public   administration   with   special reference   to   a)   the   issue   of   user   fees   b)   public   –   private   partnership   c) outsourcing  technique.		
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
