5.  Accountability  and  Control			
"
01.  Concepts  of  Accountability  and  Control"			
	Question		
	How     did     traditional     public     administration     “resolve     a     fundamentally irresolvable    problem    –    creating    an    administration    strong    enough    to    be effective but not strong enough to  endanger accountability”?		
	Public  Administration  in  the  new  –  liberal  era  is  governed  less  by  instruments of   internal   accountability   and   more   by   those   of   external   accountability Elaborate.		
	“Autonomy   and   accountability   in   Public   Enterprises   cannot   walk   together” Explain,		
	“The   weakest   aspect   of   Indian   Administrative   system   is   utter   disregard   of accountability.  “Examine  the  current  mechanism  for  enforcing  accountability. What steps are  necessary to  make  it  more effective?		
02.  Citizen  and  Administration			
	Question		
	"The   political   approach   to   Public   Administration   stresses   on   the   values   of representativeness     political     responsiveness     and     accountability     through elected officials  to the citizenry" (David H.  Rosembloom).. Comment.		
03.  Role  of  Media,  Interest  Groups,  Voluntary  Organizations			
	Question		
	“Media  the  Fourth  estate  is  in  chains.”  Examine  the  statement  in  the  context of  governmental accountability.		
	When   the   media   is   controlled   by   vested   interests,   how   can   it   control   the vested   interests   in   the    government?   How   can   the   media    become   more responsible  and impartial?		
	How  far  do  you  agree  with  the  view  that  the  growing  influence  of  media  comes in the  way of agenda-setting  by  the  Government  ?		
	"The  notion  of  information  organization  is  a  residual  or  cafeteria  concept  of diverse    and    sprawling    contents."    How    Gouldner    establish    the    need    for understanding    the    interdigitations    between    the    'formal'    and    'informal' organization?		
	"Voluntary  organizations  have  become  tools  of  sensitization  of  governmental agencies." Comment.		
	Should  media  exposure  be  included  in  rules  for  administrative  accountability in India ? State your views.		
	Media  is a  Parliament of citizens' Explain.		
	"Instruments  of  public  accountability  can  be  truly  effective  only  if  the  people and  their  associations,  backed  by  a  responsible  media,  are  assertively  pro active." Comment.		
04.  Civil  Society			
	Question		
	Civil  Society  supplements  and  complements  the  State.  However,  its  capacity and  role  depend upon the will of the  State. Comment.		
	"Civil  society  performs  a  key  role  in  defending  people  against  the  State  and market  and  in  asserting  the  democratic  will  to  influence  the  State."  Analyze the statement  with suitable examples  ?		
	Comment  on  the  of  Civil  Society  in  facilitating  administrative  accountability with special reference to the  'Janlokpal'  issue in India.		
	Define   the   term   'civil   society'.   How   does   civil   society   influence   the   public policy?		
	"Civil society  exists  to ensure  that government  does  provide good governance." Discuss.		
05.  Citizen's  Charter			
	Question		
	"Right  from  the  days  of  the  'Peoples'  Charter  to  the  new  concept  of  'Precariat Charier',  the  concept of Citizen's  Charter and  its  scope is  constantly evolving." Comment.		
	Explain   the   basic   principles   underlying   Citizen's   Character   with   special reference     to     (a)     its     administrative     philosophy.     (b)     promoting     public accountability (c) ensuring standards  of public  service.		
	Citizens  charter'  is  the  most  important  innovation  in  the  context  of  promotion of customer-orientation of administration." Discuss.		
06.  Right  to  Information			
	Question		
	"The    Right    to    Information    is    not    all    about    citizens'    empowerment,    it essentially  redefines  the concept of accountability."  Discuss.		
	Open   access   to   government   records   is   ...   the   hallmark   of   a   democratic government',  but  'governments  are  not  hesitant  about  destroying  records-very deliberately-in  order  to  prevent  investigations,  as  well  as  to  generally  weaken accountability'.   Do   you   think   that   in   this   situation   right   to   information complete    declassification    and    `de-archivization'    of    government    records? Argue.		
	"Right    to    information    promotes    transparency    and    accountability    in    the working of every  public  authority."  Explain.  .		
	Discuss  the  legal  and  political  implications  of  Right  to  information.  Is  it  a feasible concept  in the  developing countries?		
07.  Social  Audit			
	Question		
	Can  we  say  that  statutory  audit  and  social  audit  are  two  sides  of  the  same coin? Or,  are  they two separate  coins  with varying  values? Discuss.		
	"In  spite  of  certain  advantages,  Social  Audit  arrangements  have  mostly  been ineffective because there is  no legal  provision  for  punitive action." Comment.		
			
			
			
			
