6.  Administrative  Law			
"
  01.  Meaning,  Scope  and  Significance"			
	Question		
	“Red  light  and  Green  light  theories  provide  contrasting  approaches  to  the  role of  administrative  law.”  Which  of  the  two  theories  will  be  effective  in  achieving the objectives of administration law?  Justify your choice.		
	"Administrative   law   is   recognised   by   its   substance   rather   than   its   form." Discuss.		
	'The  central  concern  of  Administrative  Law  has  been  the  legal  limitation  of administrative discretion." Give  reasons.		
	"The   conceptual   division   between   administrative   and   constitutional   law   is quite  porous,  and  that  along  many  dimensions,  administrative  law  can  be considered   more   constitutional   in   character   than   the   constitutions."   How would you  justify  the statement ?		
	"Today  the  content  of  administrative  law  is  driven  primarily  by  the  scope  of public  administrative activity."  Explain.		
	"Today  the  content  of  administrative  law  is  driven  primarily  by  the  scope  of public  administration activity."  Explain.		
02.  Dicey  on  Administrative  Law			
	Question		
	"The  Journey  of  Administrative  Law  has  moved  much  beyond  A.  V.  Dicey.” Comment.		
	Do  you  think  that   there  is  an  unresolved  and   often  overlooked   tension  in Dicey's    concept    of    rule    of    law,    considering    that    the    other    principle    of parliamentary  sovereignty  in  English  constitutional  system  runs  counter  to it?		
	Would  you  agree  that  the  strong  Rechsstaat  version  of  the  rule  of  law  found on the Continent never existed in England  because  of  its particular history?		
	Why  is  le  droit  administratif  regarded  alongside  the  Napoleonic  Code  as  the most  notable  achievement  of French legal science ?		
	Make  a  critical  assessment  of  Dicey's  understanding  of  the  Rule  of  Law  and Droit Administratit:		
	"Dicey   was   wrong   not   only   in   his   concept   of   the   rule   of   law,   but   he   also overlooked  the significance of the administrative  law."- Comment.		
03.  Delegated  Legislation			
	Question		
	“Delegated   legislation   has   become   a   strategic   tool   in   the   hands   of   the executive despite  its utility.”  Comment.		
	The  principle  of  delegated  legislation,  is  I  think  right,  but  I  must  emphasise that  it  is  well  for  Parliament  to  keep  a  watchful  and  even  zealous  eye  on  it  at all stages"- (Herbert Morrison) .  Analyze.		
	"Delegated Legislation is  a  necessary  evil." Comment.		
	Make  out  a case for  Delegated Legislation.		
	"Delegated legislation is  a necessary evil."  Examine.		
	Delegated Legislation  is  not absolute.  Explain		
04.  Administrative  Tribunals			
	Question		
	Write  short note  on Effectiveness and  utility  of Central and  State Administrative  Tribunals.		
			
			
			
			
			
			
