7.  Comparative  Public  Administration			
  01.  Historical  and  Sociological  Factors  Affecting  Administrative  Systems			
	Question		
	"Administrative   systems   across   the   world   can   be   understood   only   in   their respective    historical    and    social    contexts."    Explain    the    statement    giving examples.		
	"No  science  of  public  administration  is  possible  unless....  there  is  a  body  of comparative  studies  from  which  it  may  be  possible  to  discover  principles  and generalities    that    transcend    national    boundaries    and    peculiar    historical experiences." Discuss.		
	"Comparative  Public  Administration  both  resembles  and  differs  from  modern organization  theory." Elaborate.		
02.  Administration  and  Politics  in  Different  Countries			
	Question		
	"….in  most  cases…newly  independent  states,  of  the  nations  of  Africa,  Asia and   Latin    America,   despite   their    differences….are    in   transition."   (Ferrel Heady).   What   common   features   are   indicative   of   characteristics   of   their administrative patterns  (cultures) ?		
	"...   non-western   states   often,   if   not   always,   have   unbalanced   politics,   but these may  not necessarily be  bureaucratic  politics." Discuss.		
03.  Current  Status  of  Comparative  Public  Administration			
	Question		
	The  failure  to  discard  its  elitist  character  and  west-centric  orientation  has  led to the  decline  of  Comparative  Public  Administration.  Explain.		
	"How  does  Ferrel  Heady  rationalize  the  three  stages  of  development  in  comp?
.w.ive administration?"		
	Comment     on     the     reasons     why     universal     theory     remains     elusive     in comparative  public  administration.		
	"Truly   comparative   administrative   studies   are   empirical,   nomothetic   and ecological."    (Riggs)    In    this    perspective,    examine    the    current    status    of Comparative Public Administration.		
	Explain    the    meaning,    significance    and    Models    of    Comparative    Public Administration.		
04.  Riggsian  Models  and  their  Critique			
	Question		
	"The    Riggsian    models    of    Fused-Prismatic    Diffracted    Societies    and    their administrative   systems   have   been   inspired   by   Max   Weber's   typology   of Traditional Charismatic Legal-Rational Authorities." Analyze.  .		
	"Fred  Riggs  continuously  changed  his  theory  in  order  to  create  the  perfect model."  Comment.		
	"Riggs   observed   that   three   'trends'   could   be   discerned   in   the   comparative study of Public  Administration." Discuss.		
	Critically   examine   the   Riggsian   concept   of   differentiation   in   the   context   of post-globalization era.		
	`Rigg's  classification  of  societies  into  fused,  prismatic,  and  diffracted  in  built around the  concept of differentiation.' Analyze.		
	"The  prismatic  model  of  Riggs  is  equally  applicable  to  developing  as  well  as developed society." Comment.		
	"Which  of  the  model  (s)  in  development  administration  is/are  characterized  by
`Selectivism',        'Attainment'        and        'Poly-functionalism?        Describe        the corresponding theoretical roots  and attributes."		
	"Not to be comparative  is to be naively  parochial"(Riggs) .  Comment.		
	How  did  Fred  W.  Riggs  conceptualize  the  interactions  between  administrative systems  and their environment?		
	Critically   comment   on   Riggsian   Prismatic   Sala   model   of   administration   of developing   societies.   To   what   extent   Indian   Administrative   system   exhibits prismatic  characteristics?		
	"Political   environment   conditions   admini¬strative   system."-   (F.   W.   Riggs) Comment.		
	Critically  examine  the  approach  and  methodology  adopted  by  Fred  W.  Riggs in   his   study   of   prismatic   and   sala   societies.   What   is   valid-content   of   Raj Krishna's  criticism of refraction?		
			
			
			
			
