8.  Development  Dynamics			
"
01.  Concept  of  Development"			
	Question		
	“In explaining the ‘development’, Weidner made a distinction between change in the output and change in the system itself; and warned that what is growth from one point of view may decline from another “ comment.		
	“Development  dynamics  is  marked  by  a dilemma  :  the  concept  of  development has  a  built-in  participatory  orientation  but  the  practice  of  development  has been inherently  exclusionary.” Discuss.		
	"The   process   of   administrative   development   is   generally   slower   than   the process  of  socio-economic  development."  How  can  the  speed  of  administrative development  be  made  faster ?		
	"Development    Administration    and    Administrative.    Development    have    a chicken and egg  kind of relationship" -(Riggs) . Elaborate.		
	Neither  Edward  Weidner  nor  Fred  Riggs  was  able  to  describe  the  process  of development     administration     adequately.     Explain     the     drawbacks     and weaknesses  in their theoretical analyses.		
	"The    concept    of    development    is    multidimensional    and    ever-expanding." Explain.		
	"People's participation is  crucial to  development administration."  Comment.		
	Do  you  agree  with  the  view  that  development  administration  has  in  recent years     lost     its     impetus     without     making     any     significant     intellectual breakthrough? Discuss.		
	"Development   administration   is   starved   for   theories   which   will   guide   the pooling    of    empirical    knowledge,    orient    new    research,    and    recommend administrative policy." Explain.		
	"Development      Administration      has      two      important      aspects      viz.      'the administration   of   development'   and   'the   development   of   administration'." Explain.		
	"Development   administration   is   concerned   with   maximising   innovation   for development." -  Discuss.		
02.  Changing  Profile  of  Development  Administration			
	Question		
	Development administration embraces the array of new functions assumed by the developing countries’. Explain.		
	A striking feature of economic development is an apparent symbiotic  evolution of a strong states and strong market economies. Analyse.		
	Contractual ism has become a favourite policy of the neoliberal for, but not without it, share of controversy. Argue..		
	How   does   ethnocentrism   impact   development   administration   in   achieving sustainable goals  ?  Argue  with examples		
	"The  term  Development  Administration  can  be  used  only  in  a  broad  sense  to mark the variety of  approaches and points of view." Discuss.		
	Indicate  the  milestones  in  the  story  of development  from  the  Nehruvian  Model to the  Liberalization  Model.		
	"The  market  has become  the  new icon of developmentalism."  Comment.		
	"In  certain  discourses,  there  is  a  reflected  basic  distrust  against  bureaucracy as   an   instrument   of   development."   Do   you   think   bureaucracy   is   more appropriate       for       regulatory       administration       than       for       development administration?  In  the  changing  profile  of  development  administration  in  a liberalizing  environment,  what role of bureaucracy  can be  envisaged?		
	Describe  the  changing  profile  of  Development  Administration  and  identify  its efforts towards people's empowerment.		
03.  Anti-Development  Thesis			
	Question		
	"The  idea  of  development  stands  like  a  ruin  in  the  intellectual  landscape"  and it  is  time  to  dismantle  this  mental  structure".  (Wolfgang  Sachs)  In  the  light  of the statement, critically  examinar the anti-development thesis.		
	The   anti-development   thesis   ...   reduces   development   to   an   idea   without history,  impervious to  change',  but 'fails  to  take account of the  fact  that for all its  faults,  development can be empowering.'  Discuss.		
04.  Bureaucracy  and  Development			
	Question		
	In   order   to   be   development-oriented,   bureaucracies   need   to   be   innovative, flexible,   citizen-centric   and   result-oriented,   but   they   are   slow   in   imbibing these  virtues  in  a  democratic  system.  Do  we  need  to  go  beyond  the  traditional models  of bureaucracy  and create alternative structures  ? Elaborate.		
	"Bureaucracy  has  inbuilt  limitations  to  act  as  the  prime  catalyst  to  multi- faceted  development  in  a  democratic  country."  Analyse  this  statement  with appropriate examples.		
	"Bureau-Shaping   Model   has   been   developed   as   a   response   to   the   Budget- Maximizing  Model." Comment		
	"Many  Asian  and  African  countries  have  inherited  the  colonial  idea  of  civil service  as  a  privileged  elite.  Hence,  the  social  status  of  the  civil  service  is  an important  aspect of the bureaucracy's unsuitability for change." Comment.		
"05.  Strong  State  Versus  The  Market  Debate,
Impact  Of  Liberalisation  On  Administration  In  Developing  Countries"			
	Question		
	The administrative state is the creation of a power to bind us with rules… that are not made by legislatures.’ discuss the constitutionality of the administrative state and its future.		
	Affirmative action in social economic development has not altogether eliminated disc thi. Discuss it in the context of women empowerment.		
	A striking feature of economic development is an apparent symbiotic, evolution of strong states and strong market economies. Analyse.		
	"The  problem  is  to  achieve  the  right  balance  between  a  competitive  market economy   and   an   effective   State:   markets   where   possible;   the   State   where necessary." Justice  your answer.		
06.  Women  and  Development  -  The  Self-Help  Group  Movement			
	Question		
	“woman empowerment is essential for sustainable development; hence it should not be reflected only in programs, but promoting concrete actions to ensure the participation across institutions and communities” critically examine.		
	Gender, equality and women's rights have laid down strong foundation of development. Elaborate.		
	In  a  society  marked  by  social  inequity  and  gender  inequality  women  self-help groups  are  bound  to  play  a  marginal  role.  Do  you  agree?  Give  reasons  for your answer.		
	"The  issue  of  development  of  women  is  closely  related  to  the  issue  of  women in  development."  How  can  women  become  equal  partners  in  the  process  of socio-economic development?		
	"Self-Help  Groups  are  considered  as  one  of  the  most  significant  tools  to  adopt participatory approach for economic  empowerment of woman."  Comment.		
	Show  in  what  way  the  Gender  and  Development  approach  differs  from  the Woman and Development  approach.		
	"Self-Help  Groups  have  not  only  empowered  women,  but  have  also  brought about      attitudinal      change      among      all      stakeholders      towards      women development." Discuss.		
	"In organizational analysis  there is  always gender around." (Gouldner) . Agree.		
	Given  the  importance  of  the  issue  of  sex  equality  in  development  do  you  think the  self-help  group  movement  adequately  addresses  absence  of  women  in  the former mainstream  development agenda?		
	Consider   the   statements   below   Self-Help   Groups(SHGs)   enable   women   to realize  their  full  potential  in  some  spheres  of  life.  (b)  Self-Help  Groups  (SHGs) are  providing  avenues  of  political  mobilization.  Examine  the  implications  of these two statements and assess the potential of SHGs  for development.		
