9.  Personnel  Administration			
01.  Importance  of  Human  Resource  Development			
	Question		
	'Various   components   of   Human   Resources   Management   are   inter-related." Discuss.		
	"To    talk    of    administrative    modernization    and    still    continue    with    the conventional     practice     of     public     personnel     administration     is     a     gross incongruity."  Offer  suggestions  to  initiate  radical  reforms  in  Human  Resource Management of public  administrative  systems.		
02.  Recruitment			
	Question		
	"Lateral    entry    of    competent    experts    into    the    government    will    promote freshness   and   innovation,   but   it   can   create   problems   of   accountability." Discuss.		
	"The  technical  and  multidisciplinary  nature  of  e-government  has  created  an inter-dependent     relationship     within     government     between     policymakers, programme  administrators  and  technical  specialists."  Analyze  in  the  context of  generalist-specialist  relationship.		
	The  'selection  model  of  recruitment  rests  on  the  assumption  that  the  primary needs to be met are those  of  the organization.' Examine.		
	Recruitment is  the  backbone  of Public  Administration.  Explain.		
03.  Training			
	Question		
	Currently,  administrative  training  focusses  more  on  improving  efficiency  than on  transforming  the  attitudes  and  behaviour  of  civil  servants.  What  type  of training  will you suggest to fill this gap ?  Elaborate.		
	"Training  is considered as paid holidays." Comment.		
	Distinguish  fully  between  the  syndicate  method,  role  playing  method,  and  T- Group training method in  personnel management.		
	"Training   has   proved   its   incapacity   to   change   the   attitudes,   behavior   and values of civil servants."  Do you agree  with this  statement?		
	"Training   is   essential   not   only   for   efficiency   and   effectiveness   but   also   for broadening the  vision of  the employees."  Substantiate.		
	"Training  is  practical  education  in  any  profession,  not  only  to  improve  skills but   also   to   develop   attitudes   and   scheme   of   values   necessary   for   effective performance."  Elaborate.		
04.  Career  Advancement			
	Question		
	What  opportunities  are  available  to  All  India  Services  and  state  services  in career    development?    Do    you    agree    that    days    of    generalists    in    modern administrative state  are  numbered?		
05.  Position  Classification			
	Question		
	"The   position-classification   attempts   to   establish   a   triangular   relationship between   duties   and   responsibilities,   working   conditions   and   qualification requirements."  Elucidate.		
	Position  Classification  can  be  problematic.  A  serious  complaint  in  its  practice is  that it dehumanizes  the employee.' Discuss.		
	It   is   said   that   'position   classification',   as   originally   conceived   is   sound   in terms  of  its  operational  characteristics,  but  complicated  and  unresponsive  in practice.  Why  is  it  still  considered  better  than  other  models  of  civil  service classification?.		
	"If  positions  are  the  raw  material  of  classification,  class  is  the  operating  unit." Discuss.		
06.  Discipline  and  Performance  Appraisal			
	Question		
	A   more   effective   system   of   performance   appraisal   should   acknowledge   the subjective   elements   in   it   and   be   less   obsessed   with   the   objective   criteria. Elucidate.		
	"360°  performance  appraisal  system  is  a  rational  idea,  but  it  involves  complex and  inauthentic  procedures."  How  can it be  made  foolproof  ? .		
	"A   central   reason   for   utilization   of   Performance   Appraisal   is   performance improvement   of   the   employees."   In   the   light   of   the   statement,   analyze   the needs  of Performance  Appraisal in an organization.		
	"Disciplinary  action  may  be  informal  and  formal."  Explain  and  point  out  the provisions  made  in  the  Constitution  or  Statute  to  check  the  misuse  of  power to take  disciplinary  action.		
	"The  fact  that  we  call  something  performance  auditing  means  that  we  imply salient  features  which  can  distinguish  it  from  other  forms  of  inquiry."  Discuss with     reference     to     the     main     measures     or     indicators     of     performance measurement.		
	Why   do   public   organizations   evaluate   employees'   performance?   How   can performance    evaluation    systems    affect    employees'    behaviour?    How    can administration effectively evaluate employees?		
	What    techniques    the    Government    of    India    have    employed    to    evaluate (appraise) the performance of senior  level employees, i.e., Class I and Class  II? Are  you satisfied with  these techniques?		
07.  Promotion,  Pay  and  Service  Conditions			
	Question		
	“Lateral entry  is  an antidote to the complacency in civil service.” Discuss.		
	Discuss   in   this   connection   the   case   for   and   against   promotion   based   on seniority.		
	"The  widening  gap  in  emoluments  of  government  employees  versus  the  public sector  corporations  and  private  sector  employees  has  a  strong  bearing  on  the motivation  and ability to  work." Comment.		
08.  Employer-Employee  Relations			
	Question		
	Analyze   the   relevance   of   Whilteyism   in   contemporary   employer   -   employee relationship.		
	Analyze  the  constitutional,  political  and  operational  dimensions  of  employer- employee  relations.  What  are  your  suggestions  to  bring  about  a  satisfactory relationship between them?		
09.  Grievance  Redressal  Mechanism			
	Question		
	In  what  respects,  the  powers  of  proposed  institution  of  Lok  Pal  in  the  Bill already   introduced  in   Indian  Parliament,  will  strengthen  the   institution  as compared to Parliamentary  Commissioner of  UK?		
10.  Code  of  Conduct			
	Question		
	"Administrative  ethics  includes  the  code  of  conduct  of  civil  servants.  but  goes beyond it as  well." Discuss.		
	Distinguish  between  'Codes  of  Conduct'  and  'Codes  of  Ethics'.  Justify  your answer.		
	Civil Service  neutrality is a thing  of the Past.  Discuss.		
	"The   doctrine   of   political   neutrality   and   anonymity   is   no   more   relevant   to modern civil service." - Comment.		
11.  Administrative  Ethics			
	Question		
	In   the   absence   of   a   merit-based,   fair   and   objective   civil   service   a   more partisan  and  corrupt  government  will  emerge.  Is  the  statement  justified?  Give reason.		
	The  imperatives  of  administrative  ethics  are  necessarily  an  antidote  to  “I  was only  obeying  the  orders” argument  by public official.  Explain.		
	Administrative    values    have    no    value    unless stakeholders  of the governance system." Comment.		
	"Administrative    ethics    is    a    process    of    independently    critiquing    decision standards,   based   on   core   social   values   that   can   be    discovered,   within reasonable   organizational   boundaries   that   can   be   defined,   subject   to   the personal and professional accountability? (Denhardt)  .  Explain.  .		
	"British  philosophy  of  administration  is  based  on  a  unification  of  science  of administration with ethics." Analyze. .		
	Civil  Servants  must  be  social  moralists  in  action,  living  up  to  Paul  Appleby's dictum   that.   'responsible   government   is   ethical   government'.   Examine   this statement in the light  of  good  governance.		
	Briefly    discuss    the    principles    of    ensuring    ethics    in    Public    Service    as recommended in the Nolan  Committee Report .		
	The  administrator  needs  autonomy  and  discretion  in  much  the  same  way  as the  politician needs control and  intervention. Discuss.		
	Account  for  the  increasing  corruption  in  Administration.  Suggest  remedies  to curb administrative corruption.		
