"Indian  Administration
1.  Evolution  of  Indian  Administration
  "			
	01.  Kautilya's  Arthashastra		
Year	Question	Words	Marks
19	In the text of Arthashastra, ‘the state  is  neither a police State  nor merely  a tax gathering  State’. Comment		
16	"In  contemporary  times,  Kautilya's  Arthashastra  is  relevant  more  in  the  field of  international relations  than  in economic  affairs." Analyse the statement.		
14	“Indian  administration  is  said  to  be  characterized  by  its  three  features  viz. Weberian   structures,   Kautilyan   practice   and   Gandhian   rhetoric.”   Examine the statement.		
14	“Ethics    in    public    services    has    been    the    central    concern    of    Kautilya’s Arthashastra.” Critically examine  the statement.		
12	The  Arthashastra is  a  book of  political realism.’  Elaborate.		15
	“The  rule  of  kings  depends  primarily  on  written  orders….”  Why  did  Kautilya favour Codification of Laws?		
9	Comment  on  the  view  that  despite  different  contexts,  administrative  maxims of    Kautilya’s    Arthashastra    bear    considerable    similarity    with    features    of Weber’s  ideal bureaucratic model.		
7	“Kautilya  was  not  only  the  foremost  politicoadministrative  thinker  of  ancient India  but he  was  an  advocate  and  preacher of  moral values  too.” Comment.		
6	“In  the  happiness of  his  subjects  lies  the  king’s  happiness;  in  their  welfare  his welfare.”   Comment   on   Kautilyan   state   administration.   In   what   respects   is modern democratic rulers’ behaviour  different from  Kautilyan rulers  ?		
3	Comment  on  :  “The   Arthashastra  is   India’s   oldest  complete   text  on  public administration.”		
1	Comment    on    :    “The    machinery    of    government    designed    in    Kautilya’s Arthashastra  does  not  exactly  resemble  our  modern-day  polity,  but  it  does contain  some  principles  which  could  be  said  to  be  the  part  of  today’s  science of  public  administration.”		
02.  Mughal  Administration			
Year	Question	Words	Marks
16	“A  significant  legacy  of  the  Mughal  rule  in  India  is  a  well-organized  revenue administration at the State and District levels." Comment.		
12	“The  Mughal  Administrative  System  was  military  rule  by  nature  and  a  form  of centralized despotism.”  Analyse.		12
8	‘Some   features   of   Mughal   Administration,   in   essence,   do   exist   in   Indian Administration.’ .’ Elaborate.		
5	“The  Mughal  Administrative  System  was  a  military  rule  by  nature  and  was centralized despotism.”		
03.  Legacy  of  British  Rule  in  Politics  and  Administration			
Year	Question	Words	Marks
14	“District   Collector   is   a   legacy   of   the   British   Raj   and   has   largely   remained insulated from the demands of contemporary  professionalism.”  Discuss.		
	It    is    said    that    the    British    made    a    significant    contribution    towards modernizing   the   Indian   Administrative   System   on   a   ‘rational-legal’   basis. Justify  the assessment with reference to the period from 1830 to 1865.		30
9	Comment  on  :   “Bureaucracy  developed  by  the  British  stifled  the  village  self- rule.”  Comment.		
3	Comment     on     :      “Though     India     emerged     as     a     sovereign     state     after Independence,  the  administrative  system  remained  the  same  as  was  during the British  period.”		
0	Comment  on  :  The  period  of  British  rule  generated  most  of  the  structural  and behavioural   values   of   Indian   Administration   not   by   imitation   but   through interaction.		
04.  Indianization  of  Public  Services,  Revenue  Administration,  District  Administration			
Year	Question	Words	Marks
17	“Indianisation of Public Services  is  a slow  but  steady process.” Explain		
14	“Beneath  the  soft  outer  shell  of  democratic  administrative  framework  lines unscathed   the   steel   frame   of   Indian   administration   which   has   survived through  the  ages.”  In  the  light  of  this  statement,  examine  the  relationship between bureaucracy and development  in the  last one decade.		
13	“Public  Administration  today  tends  to  be  less  public  quantitative  terms,  but more  responsive  to  public  needs  than  before  in  qualitative  terms.”  Examine with reference to  citizen-centric administration.		
13	“The  Charter  Act  of  1853  marked  the  beginning  of  parliamentary  system  in India.”  Explain.		12
	Comment    on    the    following    statements:    30    i)    “The    more    developed    an administrative  system  become  the  greater  the  likelihood  that  it  would  have developmental  affects.”  ii)  “The  thrust  of  development  administration  failed  to energise the  Indian  bureaucracy.”		30
3	Comment   on   :   “A   distinctive   feature   of   the   Indian   administration,   since Independence,   has   been   the   noticeable   efforts   undertaken   to   make   the administrative system effectively reach and  respond to citizens’  grievances.”		
2	Comment on : “All India  Services  as an institution is  the result of history.”		
2	“After    independence,    despite    the    change    in    socioeconomic    and    political milieu,  the  basic  features  of  colonial  impact  on  administration  continues  to exist in our administrative  system.” Comment.	500	60
1	“Indian  administration  is  yet  to  fully  appreciate  and  adopt  the  benefits  of  ‘the information technology.”  Elucidate.		30
1	Comment   on   :   “The   District   Collector   admirably   survived   the   historical change of role  from  an  alien regime  to  a national one.”		
