
"Meaning, scope and significance of Public Administration, 
Wilson's vision of Public Administration, 
Evolution of the discipline and its present status. 
New Public Administration,
Public Choice approach; 
Challenges of liberalisation, Privatisation, Globalisation; 
Good Governance: concept and application; 
New Public Management."

"Scientific Management and Scientific Management movement; 
Classical Theory; 
Weber's bureaucratic model, its critique and post-Weberian Developments; 
Dynamic Administration (Mary Parker Follett); 
Human Relations School (Elton Mayo and others); 
Functions of the Executive (C.I. Barnard); 
Simon's decision-making theory; 
Participative Management (R. Likert, C. Argyris, D. McGregor.)"


"Process and techniques of decision-making; 
Communication; 
Morale; 
Motivation Theories content, process and contemporary 
Theories of Leadership: Traditional and Modem."

"Theories systems, 
contingency; 
Structure and forms: Ministries and Departments, Corporations, Companies; Boards and Commissions; Ad hoc, and advisory bodies;
Headquarters and Field relationships; 
Regulatory Authorities; 
Public-Private Partnerships."

"Concepts of accountability and control; 
Legislative, Executive and judicial control over administration; 
Citizen and Administration;
 Role of media, 
interest groups, 
voluntary organizations; 
Civil society; 
Citizen's Charters; 
Right to Information; 
Social audit.
"

"Meaning, scope and significance; 
Dicey on Administrative law;
 Delegated legislation;
Administrative Tribunals.
"

"Historical and sociological factors affecting administrative systems; 
Administration and politics in different countries; 
Current status of Comparative Public Administration; 
Ecology and administration; 
Riggsian models and their critique.

"
"Concept of development; 
Changing profile of development administration; 
'Anti-development thesis’;
 Bureaucracy and development; 
Strong state versus the market debate; 
Impact of liberalisation on administration in developing countries; 
Women and development 
the self-help group movement.
"
"Importance of human resource development;
 Recruitment, 
training, 
career advancement, 
position classification, 
discipline,
 performance appraisal, 
promotion, 
pay and service conditions;
 employer-employee relations, 
grievance redressal mechanism; 
Code of conduct; 
Administrative ethics.
"

"Models of policy-making and their critique;
Processes of conceptualisation, planning, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and review and their limitations; 
State theories and public policy formulation.
"

Organisation and methods, Work study and work management; e-governance and information technology; Management aid tools like network analysis, MIS, PERT, CPM.
"Monetary and fiscal policies: Public borrowings and public debt Budgets types and forms;
Budgetary process; Financial accountability; Accounts and audit."
