"1. Evolution of Indian
Administration:"	Kautilya Arthashastra; Mughal administration; Legacy of British rule in politics and administration Indianization of Public services, revenue administration, district Administration, local self-government.
"2. Philosophical and
Constitutional
Framework of Government:"	Salient features and value premises; Constitutionalism; Political culture; Bureaucracy and democracy; Bureaucracy and development.
3. Public Sector Undertakings:	Public sector in modern India; Forms of Public Sector Undertakings; Problems of autonomy, accountability and control; Impact of liberalisation and privatisation.
"4. Union
Government and Administration:"	"Executive, Parliament, Judiciary-structure, functions, work processes; Recent trends;
Intra-governmental relations; Cabinet Secretariat; Prime Minister's Office; Central Secretariat; Ministries and Departments; Boards; Commissions; Attached offices; Field organisations."
5. Plans and Priorities:	Machinery of planning; Role, composition and functions of the Planning Commission and the National Development Council; 'Indicative' planning; Process of plan formulation at Union and State levels; Constitutional Amendments (1992) and decentralised planning for economic development and social justice.
"6. State
Government and Administration:"	Union-State administrative, legislative and financial relations; Role of the Finance Commission; Governor; Chief Minister; Council of Ministers; Chief Secretary; State Secretariat; Directorates.
"7. District
Administration since
Independence:"	Changing role of the Collector; Union-State-local relations; Imperatives of development management and law and order administration; District administration and democratic decentralisation.
8. Civil Services:	"Constitutional position; Structure, recruitment, training and capacity building; Good governance initiatives; Code of conduct and discipline; Staff associations; Political rights;
Grievance redressal mechanism; Civil service neutrality; Civil service activism."
9. Financial Management:	Budget as a political instrument; Parliamentary control of public expenditure; Role of finance ministry in monetary and fiscal area; Accounting techniques; Audit; Role of Controller General of Accounts and Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
10. Administrative Reforms since Independence:	Major concerns; Important Committees and Commissions; Reforms in financial management and human resource development; Problems of implementation.
"11. Rural
Development:"	Institutions and agencies since Independence; Rural development programmes: foci and strategies; Decentralization and Panchayati Raj; 73rd Constitutional Amendment.
12. Urban Local Government:	Municipal governance: main features, structures, finance and problem areas; 74th Constitutional Amendment; Global-local debate; New localism; Development dynamics, politics, and administration with special reference to city management.
"13. Law and Order
Administration:"	"British legacy; National Police Commission; Investigative agencies; Role of Central and State Agencies including paramilitary forces in maintenance of law and order and countering insurgency and terrorism; Criminalisation of politics and administration;
Police-public relations; Reforms in Police."
14. Significant issues in Indian Administration:	"Values in public service; Regulatory Commissions; National Human Rights Commission;
Problems of administration in coalition regimes; Citizen administration interface;
Corruption and administration: Disaster management."
